BOOK VIII. xxi. 57—59

of this occurrence. In a simil ar manner a native of
Samos named Elpis on landing from a ship in Africa,
saw near the coast a lion opening its jaws in a
threatening way, and took refuge up a tree, calling
on Father Liber for help, since the chief occasion
for praying is an emergency where there is no room
for hope. The beast had not stood in his way when
he tried to run away although it might have done,
and lying down by the tree began to beg for com-
passion with the gaping jaws by which it had scared
the man. Owing to its biting its food too greedily a
bone had stuck in its teeth‚ and was tormenting it
with starvation and not merely with the punishment
contained in the actual p1·ickles‚ as it gazed up and
looked as if making a silent prayer for aid—while
chance events are not to be relied on in face of a
wild animal, and much longer hesitation is caused
by surprise than by alarrnfl But finally he came
down and pulled out the bone for the lion, which
held out its foot to him and adjusted it at the most
necessaly angle3 and they so y that as long as th at
vessel iemained on the coast the lion displayed its
gratitude by bringing its catches to its benefactor.
'lhis led Elpis too consecrate in Samos a temple to
Father Liber, to which from that occurrence the
Greeks have given the name of Temple of Dionysus
with his Mouth Open. After this do not let us be
surprised that men's tracks are recognized by wild
beasts when they actually hope for assistance from
one of the animal race: for why did they not go to
other animals‚ or how do they know of man's healing
touch? Unless perchance violent maladies force even
wild animals to every expedient.

The natural philosopher Demetrius also records an 59331(ιῶ ⁰s

45

